ADB

Device
	Address	:	4-bits, values 0 to F
	Handler	:	

Address resolution

Registers	:	2 bits, values 0 to 3
	0	:	used to hold date that needs to be fetched by the machine
	1	:	device specific
	2	:	device specific
	3	:	used to get/set data

The bits in register 3 are defined by the ADB Manager. Figure 5-5 shows the defined bits for register 3, which include the default ADB device address, the device handler ID, a service request enable field, an exceptional event field, and several reserved bits.

Table 5-2 provides a description of each bit in register 3.

Table 5-2 Bits in device register 3
Bit	Description
15	Reserved; must be 0
14	Exceptional event, device specific; always 1 if not used
13	Service request enable; 1 = enabled
12	Reserved; must be 0
11Å8	ADB device address
7Å0	Device handler ID

Table 5-3 Defined default ADB device addresses
Default
address 	Device type			Example
$0		Reserved for the Macintosh computer
$1		Protection devices		Software execution control devices
$2		Encoded devices			Keyboards
$3		Relative-position devices	Mouse devices
$4		Absolute-position devices	Tablets
$5		Data transfer devices		Low-speed ADB modems
$6		Any other			Reserved
$7		Any other			Appliances/miscellaneous
$8 to $E	Reserved for dynamically relocating devices

Table 5-4 Special device handler IDs
ID value	Description
$FF		Instructs the device to initiate a self-test.
$FE		Instructs the device to change its ADB device address (as stored in bits 8Å11 
		of register 3) to the new address set in the command if no collision has been 
		detected.
$FD		Instructs the device to change its ADB device address (as stored in bits 8Å11 
		of register 3) to the new address set in the command if the activator is 
		pressed. (See Guide to the Macintosh Family Hardware, second edition, for 
		complete details on activators.)
$00		Instructs the device to change its ADB device address (as stored in bits 8Å11 
		of register 3) and enable bit (bit 13) to the new values set in the command.

Actions
Change a device handler ID
	Send a Listen Register 3 command with the new handler ID
	If accepted, the new handler ID is returned by the device

Typical ADB device table at initialization
Index
Device handler ID
Current address
Default address
Address of device handler routine
Address of handler's data area

--------------------------------------------
Address resolution
Each ADB device has a default ADB device address and initially responds to all ADB commands at that address.

At system startup, the ADB Manager polls all ADB devices at each ADB address and begins the process of building the ADB device table by sending a Talk Register 3 command to each device. Each ADB device at a specific address attempts to respond by sending a random device address. If more than one ADB device shares an address, however, each device that detects a collision immediately stops transmitting data. The device that has not detected the collision completes sending its random address across the bus.


































